# Badhuri et al. 2020 GBM dataset + R. Wang 2020 GBM dataset:

## Dir: 2023-06-27_sampleIDfix

-   Script: 2023-06-27_sampleIDfix.Rmd
-   Results: After checking the file samples to each other in the hg38 and hg38+TE suerat objects, they should be correctly matched

## Dir: 2023-06-28_thesisfigs

-   Script 2023-06-28_thesisfigs_gte.Rmd
-   Script 2023-06-28_thesisfigs_ge.Rmd
-   Results are matched between the two files
-   Quality Control Figures (Bar plot Cell Counts, ElbowPlot PCA, )
-   Visualization (UMAPs of Samples, Clusters, Cell Types, GBM subtypes)
    -   Missing 0.4 resolution with cell types and gbm subtypes
-   Metadata (Cell count per sample `.csv` and subtypes)
-   DEG (Dotplot of known markers per cell type)

## Dir: 2023-06-30_gseafigs

-   Script:

## Dir: 2023-07-12_deg

-   Scripts: bin/r_gbmsc_findallmarkers.sh, GBMGSCTE/r_findallmarkers_ge_0.3.R, GBMGSCTE/r_findallmarkers_ge_0.4.R, GBMGSCTE/r_findallmarkers_gte_0.3.R, GBMGSCTE/r_findallmarkers_gte_0.4.R
    -   Performed deg analysis for gete and ge datasets
    -   2023-08-04 -- Job sent `9018974_[0-3]`
        -   GE: min.pct=0.25, logfc.threshold = 0.25, only.pos = F
        -   GTE: min.pct=0.10, logfc.threshold = 0.25, only.pos = F
-   Dir: 2023-08-08_gbmgsc_deg
    -   `ge_markers_0.3.csv`
    -   `ge_markers_0.4.csv`
    -   `gte_markers_0.3.csv`
    -   `gte_markers_0.4.csv`
    -   pct.1 - percentage of cells in analyzed cluster that expresses this gene
    -   pct.2 - percentage of remaining cells expressing this gene
    -   min.pct = threshold for pct.1 or pct.2 for the gene to be included in the analysis.
-   Script: 2023-08-08_deg.Rmd
    -   Analyzed results from DEG analysis.

## Dir: 2024-06-27_grpathways

-   See `README.md` for more details
-   Script: featureplots/2024-06--25.R
    -   GENECARDS "glutamate receptor" list of genes as .csv
    -   Created 271 feature plots for each of this genes. as tiffs. (grouped by 50 plots at a time).
-   Scripts: bin/utils_go.R + go/2024-06-26_GO-KEGG.R
    -   AmiGO gene ontology terms filtered by "glutamate receptor"
    -   KEGG pathway terms filtered by human (`hsa`) and "glutamate receptor"
    -   Performed unbiased gene ontology with modified utils_go.R script functions.
        -   Modified `geneontology()` to incorporate KEGG analysis
        -   `allGOgenes()` and `genesByGO()` to output a csv file instead of a list.
-   Script: dotplots/2024-06-27_gr_lit-based.R
    -   Started after meeting for Yoshiaki to prepare for his France Conference Talk

## Dir: 2024-07-02_monocle3

-   Working to combine predictions obtained from previous Monocle3 analysis (March 30, 2023)
-   Script: 2024-07-02_monocle.R
-   Created 3 stacked barplots illustration the predictions organized by gbm subtype and by cluster.
-   Still need to fix some errors in combining the predictions to each cell ID properly.

## Dir: 2024-08-05_metabolicgenes

-   Yoshiaki wants to know expression levels of CARNS1, CNDP1, CNDP2, and NFE2L2
-   Script: 2024-08-05_metabolicgenes.R
    -   Created 5 figures
        -   `figs_ge_FeaturePlot_metabolic-genes.tiff` - UMAP of CARNS1 and CNDP1 (others were absent)
        -   `figs_ge_DotPlot_metabolic-genes.tiff` - most expressed in cluster 8 and 10
        -   `figs_ge_DotPlot_metabolic-genes-byGBMsubtype.tiff` - x axis are the genes while y-axis is the gbm subtype. metabolic genes were most highly expressed in the non-tumour cells.
        -   `figs_ge_DotPlot_metabolic-genes-byGBMsubtype_legend.tiff` - increased height to include the full legend size
        -   `figs_ge_DotPlot_metabolic-genes-byCellType.tiff`- x axis are the genes while y-axis is the celltypes. metabolic genes were most highly expressed in the healthy differentiated Oligodendrocyte cluster and also slightly in cluster 10.
